Netarkivet datasheet and application scripts. (#129)
centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models: docs/datasheets/Netarkivet_text.md

# NAT: Netarkivet Text

*Version*: 1.0.0

*Homepage*: https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models

*license*: Not publicly available.

---

Netarkivet Text (NAT) consist of a subsection of [Netarkivet](https://www.kb.dk/find-materiale/samlinger/netarkivet) and 
contains 2,332 million sites across 1.6 million domains. 
Netarkivet include sites from the period 2006 to 2016.

NAT have been filters out quality using a series of heuristic filters and removing repitious texts. 
Following the filtering NAT is deduplicated to remove exact and near-duplicates. For more on data cleaning
see post processing.

> The sites which passed the quality filter were deduplicated pr. year consist of 865 billion tokens of which 134 (0.16%) billion were left after filtering and deduplication.

Author: This should clarify it. It is the whole dataset. adn 134 after filtering.

From which a text only corpus was derived for research purposes, see [4,5]. This is the
subsection from which this dataset is derived.

This subsection have then been filtered with the intention of training Danish language
models by a team of researchers at Center for Humanities Computing Aarhus (CHCAA) using
a codebase jointly developed with partners from industry (e.g. KMD, Ekstra Bladet) and
other research institutions (e.g. Briston University, Alexandra Institute).
For more on collaborators on this project see the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models
).

**Any other comments?**

No.

## Composition

**What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent (e.g., documents, photos, people, countries)?**

Instances of the dataset are a Danish domain site including metadata such as;

```
|     | Column      | Dtype  |
| --- | ----------- | ------ |
| 0   | harvest_id  | int32  |
| 1   | job_id      | int32  |
| 2   | sha1        | object |
| 3   | mime_served | object |
| 4   | language    | object |
| 5   | mime_droid  | object |
| 6   | timestamp   | object |
| 7   | uri         | object |

> | 9   | domain_key  | object |

Author: Hopefully this is now better?

```

**How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?**

NAT contains a total of 2332 million sites distributed over 1,6 million domains.  
1,370 million of these sites are Danish, with the largest secondary language being English
with 718 million sites.

**Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?**

These domains is an instane from a larger set of domains from Netarkivet, which is a samples subset of the Danish internet.

**If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?**

The Netarkivet is being scrabed using;

- Cross-sectional collection of all Danish websites up to four times a year.
- Selective collection if the following domains: Alle Danish newsmedia (with a frequency
ranging from 12 times a day to weekly), political parties, organisations and union,
legal bodies such as ministeries og agencies, selected social media profiles, YouTube videos. 

> - Event collections of two-three event yearly (e.g. elections and the corona pandemic)

Author: 2-3 event pr. year. Hopefully it is more clear now?

- Have less than 90% of lines starting with a bullet point.
- have less than 30% of lines ending with an ellipsis.

- Have low high degree of repetitious text:
  - Have less than 20% of characters contained within duplicate lines.
  - Have less than 20% of characters contained within duplicate paragraphs.
  - Where the top 2-4 grams constitute less than 20%, 18%, 16%, respectively, of the text. 
  - Where the duplicate 5-10 grams constitute less than 25%, 24%, 23%, 22%, 21%, 20%
of the text, respectively.

The deduplication removed all documents with a 13-gram Jaccard similarity higher than 80%
following the MinHash algorithm [1] using 128 permutations. The MinHash algorithm is a
probabilistic data structure for approximating the Jaccard similarity between two sets.

**Is the software used to preprocess/clean/label the instances available?**

Yes, the scripts are available
[here](https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models/tree/main/src/application/nat). 
the scripts use version 0.0.2 of the
[dfm package](https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models). 

## Uses

**Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?**

> Yes, the dataset has been used to pre-train Danish language models.
> Furthermore, the unfiltered dataset have also been used in [4] and [5], for examining
> of the development on the Danish Web.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Yes, the dataset has been used to pre-train Danish language models.
Furthermore, the unfiltered dataset has also been used in [4] and [5], for examining
of the development on the Danish web.
```

**Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?**

No.

**What (other) tasks could the dataset be used for?**

The scale of the dataset makes it suitable for NLP tasks such as language modelling.

> It is likely possible to extract reviews, social media post and similar semi-labelled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is likely possible to extract reviews, social media posts and similar semi-labelled
```

datasets from the dataset which can be used for NLP task such as sentiment analysis or
hate-speech detection.

The content of dataset makes it useable in a wide range of other applications in media
studies, social science or humanities, including development of written Danish,
emergence conspiracy theories, and online information dynamics.

**Is there anything about the composition of the dataset or the way it was collected and
preprocessed/cleaned/labeled that might impact future uses?**

> This dataset is static and thus does not evolve over time with the language, thus will
> become increasingly outdated over time. The Netarkivet of which it is derived is however
> not static and is thus likely to develop further, which should allow us to update the 
> dataset going forward.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This dataset is static and thus does not evolve over time with the language, thus will
become increasingly outdated over time. Netarkivet, from which it is derived, is
not static however, and is thus likely to further develop, which will allow us to update the 
dataset going forward.
```

# NAT: Netarkivet Text

*Version*: 1.0.0

*Homepage*: https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models

*license*: Not publicly available.

---

Netarkivet Text (NAT) consists of a subsection of [Netarkivet](https://www.kb.dk/find-materiale/samlinger/netarkivet) and 
contains 2,332 million sites across 1.6 million domains. 
Netarkivet includes sites from the period 2006 to 2016.

NAT has been filtered using a series of heuristic filters and removing repetitious texts. 
Following the filtering, NAT is further deduplicated to remove exact and near-duplicates. For more on data cleaning,
see the post processing section below.

> The sites which passed the quality filter were deduplicated pr. year. NAT consist of 865 billion tokens of which 134 (0.16%) billion were left after filtering and deduplication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The sites which passed the quality filter were deduplicated per year. NAT consist of 865 billion tokens of which 134 (15%) billion were left after filtering and deduplication.
```

This part has then been filtered with the intention of training Danish language
models by a team of researchers at Center for Humanities Computing Aarhus (CHCAA) using
a codebase jointly developed with partners from industry (e.g. KMD, Ekstra Bladet) and
other research institutions (e.g. Bristol University, Alexandra Institute).
For more on collaborators on this project see the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models
).

**Any other comments?**

No.

## Composition

**What do the instances that comprise the dataset represent (e.g., documents, photos, people, countries)?**

Instances of the dataset are Danish domain sites, which further include metadata such as:

|     | Column      | Dtype  |
| --- | ----------- | ------ |
| 0   | harvest_id  | int32  |
| 1   | job_id      | int32  |
| 2   | sha1        | object |
| 3   | mime_served | object |
| 4   | language    | object |
| 5   | mime_droid  | object |
| 6   | timestamp   | object |
| 7   | uri         | object |
| 9   | domain_key  | object |

Where `harvest_id` is the id of the associated Netarkivet web harvest. Each web harvest

> consist of jobs each with their associated `job-id`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consists of jobs, each with their associated `job-id`. 
```

> Language is the language classified using a the following language detection [library](https://github.com/optimaize/language-detector). `uri` is the URI of the site e.g. `"http://www.apple.com/podcasting"`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Language is the language classified using the following language detection [library](https://github.com/optimaize/language-detector). `uri` is the URI of the site e.g. `"http://www.apple.com/podcasting"`. 
```

`timestamp` is the date given on the format `"20060612105533"`, indicating year, month, date, time.
The `sha1` is the website hash.

> `mime_*` indicated The [mime/media type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mime_*` indicates the [mime/media type](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Media_type).
```

> `mime_served` could e.g. be `"text/html; charset=iso-8859-1"` and `mime_droid` could e.g. be `"text/html; version=2.0"` and is the mime type identified by the server and by [DROID](https://github.com/digital-preservation/droid) respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`mime_served` could for instance be `"text/html; charset=iso-8859-1"` and `mime_droid` could be `"text/html; version=2.0"` and is the mime type identified by the server and by [DROID](https://github.com/digital-preservation/droid), respectively.
```

> 
> 
> 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

**How many instances are there in total (of each type, if appropriate)?**

NAT contains a total of 2,332 million sites distributed over 1.6 million domains.  
1,370 million of these sites are Danish, with the largest secondary language being English
with 718 million sites.

**Does the dataset contain all possible instances or is it a sample (not necessarily random) of instances from a larger set?**

These domains are a subset of Netarkivet, which again is a sample of all the Danish content on the internet.

> **If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion

**If the dataset is a sample from a larger set, what was the sampling strategy?**
```

Netarkivet has being scraped from the internet using the following procedures:

- Cross-sectional collection of all Danish websites up to four times a year.
- Selective collection of the following domains: All Danish newsmedia (with a frequency
ranging from 12 times a day to weekly), political parties, organisations and unions,
legal bodies such as ministeries og agencies, selected social media profiles, YouTube videos. 
- Event collections of 2-3 events yearly (e.g. elections and the corona pandemic)
- Miscellaneous/on-demand webscrapes (for instance in collaboration with researchers)

> A selective subset of Netarkivet is then extracted pr. year from 2006 to 2016 such that 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A selective subset of Netarkivet is then extracted per year from 2006 to 2016 such that 
```

Yes, the scripts are available
[here](https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models/tree/main/src/application/nat). 
the scripts use version 0.0.2 of the
[dfm package](https://github.com/centre-for-humanities-computing/danish-foundation-models). 

## Uses

**Has the dataset been used for any tasks already?**

Yes, the dataset has been used to pre-train Danish language models.
Furthermore, the unfiltered dataset has also been used in [4] and [5], for examining
of the development on the Danish web.

**Is there a repository that links to any or all papers or systems that use the dataset?**

No.

**What (other) tasks could the dataset be used for?**

The scale of the dataset makes it suitable for NLP tasks such as language modelling.
It is likely possible to extract reviews, social media posts and similar semi-labelled
datasets from the dataset which can be used for NLP task such as sentiment analysis or
hate-speech detection.

The content of dataset makes it useable in a wide range of other applications in media
studies, social science or humanities, including development of written Danish,
emerging conspiracy theories, and online information dynamics.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
